packages/mavlink/README.md, before:

# `@skybrush/mavlink`

This package contains MAVLink message implementations for various MAVLink
dialects.

The implementation is based on the MAVLink files generated by `mavgen.py` in
`pymavlink`. You can generate a copy of these files by checking out the
official `pymavlink` repo and then running:

```sh
cd generator
./gen_js.sh
```

The `gen_js.sh` script needs the official MAVLink message definitions to be
present in a folder named `message_definitions` on the same level as
`pymavlink` is. For me it was more convenient to do the following:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink
git clone https://github.com/ArduPilot/pymavlink
cd pymavlink
./gen_js.sh
```

but this requires one to patch the `gen_js.sh` shell script to look for
`message_definitions` in the appropriate folder of the `mavlink` repo.

## Chnages made to the generated implementations

The generated implementations use a patched version of the third-party `jspack`
and `long` libraries. The patches to `long` are relatively benign and they can
easily be traced by diffing the source against the original (version 4.0.0),
but the `jspack` code was also reformatted, which makes it extremely hard to
figure out where the real changes are. Therefore, I have simply vendored `long`
and `jspack` in the source tree and modified the generated JavaScript
implementations of the MAVLink message processors to use the vendored variants.

* The generated implementations also depend on `underscore`, which is
  unfortunate because `lodash` is more common nowadays.

* The generated implementations import the `util` module from Node.js, but the
  only function they use from it is `inherits`, which is provided by a separate
  package on NPM. To avoid having to shim the entire `util` module in browser
  environments, I have modified the generated implementation to depend on
  `inherits` only.

* The generated implementations assume that `Buffer` is in the global
  namespace, which is true for Node.js but not for browser environments.
  Therefore, we explicitly import `Buffer` from the `buffer` module to cater
  for both environments.

## Additional caveats

When using this module in a browser environment. `crypto` and `stream` have to
be polyfilled from `crypto-browserify` and `stream-browserify`.

## License

Copyright 2020-2022 CollMot Robotics Ltd.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

doc: updated README for mavlink package

packages/mavlink/README.md, after:

# `@skybrush/mavlink`

This package contains MAVLink message implementations for various MAVLink
dialects.

The implementation is based on the MAVLink files generated by `mavgen.py` in
`pymavlink`. You can generate a copy of these files by checking out the
official `pymavlink` repo and then running:

```sh
cd generator
./gen_js.sh
```

The `gen_js.sh` script needs the official MAVLink message definitions to be
present in a folder named `message_definitions` on the same level as
`pymavlink` is. For me it was more convenient to do the following:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink
git clone https://github.com/ArduPilot/pymavlink
cd pymavlink/generator
./gen_js.sh
```

but this requires one to patch the `gen_js.sh` shell script to look for
`message_definitions` in the appropriate folder of the `mavlink` repo.

The generated implementations are in `generator/javascript/implementations`; for
instance, the MAVLink 2.0 ArduPilot dialect is in
`generator/javascript/implementations/mavlink_ardupilotmega_v2.0`.

## Chnages made to the generated implementations

The generated implementations use a patched version of the third-party `jspack`
and `long` libraries. The patches to `long` are relatively benign and they can
easily be traced by diffing the source against the original (version 4.0.0),
but the `jspack` code was also reformatted, which makes it extremely hard to
figure out where the real changes are. Therefore, I have simply vendored `long`
and `jspack` in the source tree and modified the generated JavaScript
implementations of the MAVLink message processors to use the vendored variants.

* The generated implementations also depend on `underscore`, which is
  unfortunate because `lodash` is more common nowadays.

* The generated implementations import the `util` module from Node.js, but the
  only function they use from it is `inherits`, which is provided by a separate
  package on NPM. To avoid having to shim the entire `util` module in browser
  environments, I have modified the generated implementation to depend on
  `inherits` only.

* The generated implementations assume that `Buffer` is in the global
  namespace, which is true for Node.js but not for browser environments.
  Therefore, we explicitly import `Buffer` from the `buffer` module to cater
  for both environments.

## Additional caveats

When using this module in a browser environment. `crypto` and `stream` have to
be polyfilled from `crypto-browserify` and `stream-browserify`.

## License

Copyright 2020-2022 CollMot Robotics Ltd.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
